# Analyzing_National-Health-and-Nutrition-Examination-Survey_data
The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. NHANES is a major program of the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). NCHS is part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and has the responsibility for producing vital and health statistics for the Nation.
The NHANES interview includes demographic, socioeconomic, dietary, and health-related questions. The examination component consists of medical, dental, and physiological measurements, as well as laboratory tests administered by highly trained medical personnel.

Here, in this project, we have used the NHANES dataset from the year 2015_2016. The csv file (downloaded from the official NHANES website: [https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/about_nhanes.htm](url) )is attached in this repository.

We have looked at a few variables from this dataset (like blood pressure, weight,marital status etc) and derived their summary statistics. Findings from this survey can be used to determine the prevalence of major diseases and risk factors for diseases. Information derived from such project can be used to assess nutritional status and its association with health promotion and disease prevention and define the basis for national standards for measurements such as height, weight, and blood pressure.
